OH, MY GOD.....IT'S FULL OF STARS!!!!

Psychometrist is not online.
You must scavenge a part from the ship on the first planet
Disassemble first part... one of those three you need to fix the
psychometrist.  From those parts you also find a part which, when
researched, will provide you data on the Sengzhac...(mention that they are
hostile?)  The third item will give you the star map, making the Sector
Codex usable.

After (X) systems visted or after a certain item is built you encounter the
Sengzhac.  Speak w/them and they will invariably become enraged (but not
before revealing essential plot points ..perhaps coordinates)  they will
probably defeat you easily...board you ship, and not finding any flesh, they
will leave...thus you can wake up after they are gone and continue...maybe
with a few components missing.

after meeting the sengzhac, you pick up the transponder beacon of a satellite.
You find a satellite orbiting a world (it's a buoy left by the other ship..
it tells you of an abnormal reading they recorded passing by a nearby system
It is a place in an asteroid field where there is a weakening (actually a
type of trojan point) in the diminsional continueum.

Contact Void Dwellers.  They offer to sell information. they give you names of
a few of the major races, so that you can ask the other races about them.
Vague and ambiguous.  right after you finish meeting with them, your security
officer writes a program to hide parts of your ship's log from the void
dwellers scans.

you encounter the Phaedor Moch..."puppet masters"  they are ventriloquists
<insanity....madness...all is madness (include references to the God's
Eye...blind vision...vision..)> you are exploring a planet that the void 
dwellers point you to (it is a rich system...maybe you can find a probot or
some other tech there), and the Moch's ship just starts attacking you.  
They have no communications and are very damaged.  they keep attacking you
(they think that you are the D'pahk who had attacked them before they
phased out of the system to where you are now.)  You have to shoot them
down...they crash on a planet, and you send down a bot to communicate. 
They tell you location of D'pahk...you help them fix their ship <they will
need two base elements, coolants and radioactives to repair themselves> they
carefully try to avoid giving you info on their phase drive, but they are
to insane to keep from mentioning it ) you are given a small panel with some
writing on it by the once dominant puppet...the panel will eventually lead
you to their home planet.

encounter D'pahk where Moch told you..they
take the whole of your ship...<they are massive ships>
into theirs.  they take you to their homeworld... where they keep 
speaking of the sun? <it turns out that the sun is the magma>
<they speak of a shielded world..vague
references to location...is it habitable?>

you can't get near the world to scan it... shielded.
you find a device on a planet in the system which you will need to bring the
shield down.

<hallifax manuever>...you encounter a race performing military manuevers...
they say it has some major significance.  it involves killing each other
for no aparrent reason... they don't want to do it... but they have to.
they ask for your help<weird>

meet the Scavengers...<simple form>...simple communications ..could end in
battle...<easily destroyed this time>

Meet the Quai pa'loi
they require lots of (data boards?)... it must be tech.. they require
salvageable materials... they give you four things...
one thing per small device
1. coolants <10>
2. solonoids <20>
3. artifact that increases ship's hull points
4. they give you the girl, Muriel <in stasis>

Quai Pa'loi go to war over free trade with other races when you leave the
system following the girl's retrieval.
You discover this the next time you talk to the Quai pa'loi or the D'pahk.

Two factions in war...Pai aloi are against free trade with the other
races...the Q'ooul are in favor of continuing relations as they were.. The
Q'ooul have fled their homeworld and set up a base in a nearby system.  The
Q'ooul are too afraid to fight the disordered Pai Aloi without their secret
weapon. The Q'ooul offer to give you some great tech on thier homeworld if you
help them defeat the Pai aloi.  First they ask you to bring them a number of
weird weapons <goolas> (they will not interface
with your ship...they will turn out to be a type of goo launchers when
you find them.  the goo will block up the weapons of the other ship.)
They tell you to get them from the Guild...but the guild says they are out
of them.  They send you to the Moch...the masters of all sorts of weird
tech...unfortunately, you can't find the Moch. (they used the
phase drive on their entire planet)

To keep her alive out of stasis you'll require some items and things
to build her interface...<more invented items>

She tells you where her mother <Aria> is...

Ermigen tell you about a trojan gate.  At the other end of it, you encounter
Guild ships near a dead world... they are in mourning they won't tell you
why. (destroyed them over an arguement about payment...the guild delivered
a shipment of damaged goods.  The Yillers thought that they shouldn't have to
pay for the goods becasue they were useless.  The guild wanted at least some
payment for their travels expenses, and claim that the goods were in excellent
shape when they picked them up.  The guild arms their weapons to scare the
Yillers, but the Yillers don't give in.  A guild member with and itch finger
accidentally (on purpose) destorys the planet...and you show up.  the void
dwellers will tell you all about this when you ask about the yillers.)

Return to Muriel's mother's system... enroute you are attacked by
scavengers they keep attacking you if you continue moving toward the planet 
she is at... if you continue long enough you will be over powered...
once this happens you will be towed to a scavenger base...they take many
useful items out of the ship...including the girl.  You awaken after the
battle force has left the base.  There is only one scavenger ship left to
guard the base.  After destroying it, you find that the door will only open
for a scavenger...your probots can't get in, and you can blast it for fear
of hurting Murial.  

you escape and find Aria...she tells you that Murial is an android
and tells you some about ancient earth and the reasons she left...how she
invented the encoding process and built a very small ship to escape from an
early lunar colony.  she tells you how she created the scavengers <it's all
roundabout...you figure it out> and gives you a brain...

integrate the brain and a probot and a desei conduit... the resulting thing
can be used to rescue the girl.  Rescuing her will give you some
information on a race... genetic material things like this ...they are
called the Ylinthelixymn.  You tell Murial that it is too dangerous to have
a lifeform aboard the ship...she offers to encode herself, but you insist
that you should take her back to her mother.  She shuts you down and
encodes herself against your will. 

When your ship enters a certain area, your science officer picks up a
distress signal from a ship. (make the area quite a few light years wide so
that the player is certain to enter into it.)  The ship is the Aard, in
disguise.  They have run out of fuel and ask you to spare some for them.
After giving them fuel, they reveal themselves as shape shifters.  Your
science officer afterward tells you that he can make you appear disguised
as the Aard did and creates the Morph-talk program.

You meet the Titarian... they tell you they see your future... your destiny
look into the out of for the five....five of what?
ask the Quai Pa'loi...

Titarian tell you info on a race that worships them.  It is a
small planet of religeous people.  They fall before you when they see the
number of the Monks (a 7).  they ask you to consult the monks about something for
them.  They give you coordinates to find them.  You get to coords and find
a flashing billboard on the planet (maybe a cambot shot) saying "Welcome to
...., Home of the Monks...(on another sign tacked underneath the larger
one) Due to space limitations and two much traffic, we have been forced to
move to a quieter location.  LEAVE US ALONE!!!"

The Ermigen tell you of how distressed they are the 
Quai have destroyed themselves... they tell you they feel responsible.
not unlike the distress felt by the Guild... after this they say no more

The D'pahk will then tell you who the Guild destroyed... and suggest a 
way to help. Ylinthlixymn.

When you go to the Guild you have the option to give them this genetic
material.  They become delighted and give you alot of cool stuff including
a large stasis field generator.

Titerians tell you they have "seen" you find a derilict...inbetween stars...
and give you its coords.  It has info...
something about shields(false info planted by the sengzhac)...and an item
(artifact giving you thermoplast technology) you find there...

Guild sends you to the Icon...to answer all of you quesions about the
universe.  they are not helpful.. they are unintelligable... no sound..
just a symbol cypher on the comscrn.

Develop radiation shielding... 

The system where the Titerians predicted a bright spot goes nova while you
are there... it happens when the planet you are orbiting is in the darkest
phase and as a result the explosion does not destroy you...but damages you
muchly!!
the resulting dead star is another Trojan point...
and following the destruction you have another vision <death is the life...
seek vision in death>
you find a moon where there should be planet...large planetoid that
escaped the destruction its mother world suffered... lots of debris..
artifacts? maybe something important...

Next convo w/ the Void Dwellers tells you that they have seen through
the eye...from the other side... seek out this eye... the eye sees life
is life...

<vision from the ****> "seek sight in iron"

Develop thermal probe technology...

while scanning a planet in a system, your detect a large explosion on the
next plant.  science officer suggests you should investigate.
You find ship buried in some planet with "shunt drive" intact
someone in the crew says that "it isn't a phase drive...but it has 
interesting properties..." let's plug it in...
 it doesn't work the first couple tries...
1.  full power failure
2. aux power failure
3. engine damage...and a whale in the sky
4. shunt to a random location...
***captain...we've finally got this one to work... but we'll need some
parts to fix it... I think it requires some kind of focus...it needs for
energy faster.  suggest to ask guild about it.

"Starhammers" mentioned by guild.... "Thermoprobes and shuntdrives"
these devices when used on a star will shunt all space around the star
to elsewhere...nullifying that system...
it is suggested that if the Scavengers had a homeworld that you could shunt
them thisway...and be rid of them...

After finding shunt drive, you intercept a communication between the
titerians saying that the home world of a powerful race <MalZatoir> was just
destroyed by the scavengers...a signal bouy approaches your ship and asks
for your presense at the Icon's homeworld.

the icon tell you where to find the Phador Moch(they decipher the panel you
stole from the Moch ship).  The Moch will give you the guns for the Q'ooul
if you bring them lots of worthless junk. 

icon tell you how the protectors of the Monks became lost with no point for
existance after the Monks disappeared.  They were to practice the Hallifax
Manuver until they were summoned to perform it to reawaken their masters at
the appropriate time.  The time has now come.  If you take your shield
lowering device to them and activate it, they will go to the shielded
world, perform the maneuver, and then strategically position themselves
around the system to protect it from lawyers, software pirates, and
deadline screaming publishers.  They ask you to bring them the mobius device
when you finish it.  "oh, you don't know what a mobius device is...oh, well
wait a few more turns and you will have a vision about it."

The Q'ooul take the guns and attack the homeworld, regaining it and winning
the war.  they search for useful tech to reward you with, but can only find
a multi-imager.

A vision tells you about the "temple"... iron stones... gives you coords

the void dwellers tell you where this pile of stones is...direct
coordinates.

you use a detonator to get into the temple...once inside it is made clear
that the ironseed is the god's eye and that one of the races can tell you
the location of it.  it tells you to use the mobius device
at the god's eye...you also find an unknown artifact <the channeler>

there is something that the titarian must give you that you must add to 
the mobius device in order for it to crack the cypher on the God's Eye.

As you leave the temple system, you are robbed of the shunt drive by
Derraak, the pirate. (the guild have been telling you about how he has been
stealing from their trading ships.  They tell you that he never attacks
titerian ships, and they also tell you where his favorite system to hang
out is...they tell you to avoid it at all cost and that you will never be
able to find him...he is too good at hiding)  you ask the titerians about
him.  they tell you that he hides in systems near large trade areas and
waits for ships to drop into the system to scavenge for fuel.  He waits
until the ship leaves the system, and all of the crew has gone back into
stasis.  He then (using his small ship built only for massive
accelerations) run up alongside the ship and boards.  Most ships systems
are only programmed to wake the crew if another ship is in range with
weapons or shields active.  This is why he is not detected when his ship
nears the victim.  When he detects
that the stasis field has been deactivated, he runs.  You must use the
stasis generator to make him think you are in stasis, and have Murial
program a probot to place a VLS on his ship while derraak is robbing you.
You must have a VLS (very longrange signal) transmitter (coupled
with some type of detonator) to use as a homeing device.  You go to his
favorite system, engage the stasis field, and leave the system.  When he
attacks you ship, you plant the homing device on him and use it to follow
him at a distance to his home base (an asteroid in the middle of nowhere). 
You detonate the homing device so that he can't run, and you raid his base,
regaining the shunt drive.

After shunt drive is repaired, you find out that your ship cannot provide
enough energy to activate it properly...crew suggests that maybe you will
find some other generator that will allow you to channel more energy into
it. (of course, this never happens)

The ermigen are destroyed by the scavengers...The Icon send you to search
their home planet.  You find records of the final battle...how the Cargan
(a powerful ermigen ship with a temporal anchor) was trying to lead the
scavenger ships into the corona of the sun...they would melt, but the heat
resistant hull of the Cargan would not be damaged...the sun's radiate
distorted some navigational reading on the ship, and it accidentally hit
the surface of the sun. The crash killed the entire crew, but the ship (and
the temporal anchor) were left intact.  You can get the anchor with a
thermoplast protected probot.

After discovering thermoplast tech, you talk to the D'pahk they say they
would give anything to approach
the sun... flowing iron...the seed... ironseed...sunseed...
you can give them a fitted thermoprobe...they give you a thaumaturge in
return.  They will only give it to you after you defeat the scavengers,
because they need it for their own protection while the scavengers are
around.

Using the multi-imager and the Morph-talk program, you go to the sengzhac
homeworld (icons tell you where it is)  You tell them that you are a
collective being trying to destroy an uprising among a few of your members
who have escaped from the collective.  You need something more powerful to
fight them with, because they have all the same tech you do (being from the
same race, of course they would know all the same things.)  The sengzhac
give you a doom gate.  You also learn a lot of history from the
sengzhac...including what happened to the old human ship at the start of
the game.

You must ask the monks to reduce the number of sengzhac guarding the god's
eye, there are just too many of them to defeat.  Rob sets the number of
sengzhac to a manageable level, in exchange for getting to see the mobius
device.  someone says, "Hey, what does this button do?"  The others yell,
"NO!" as the screen goes blank.  Then a sigh comes up saying, "Channel 7 is
experienceing technical difficulties...please stand by."  You send down a
probot to get back the device, and then head for the eye.

By this time the scavengers have become a serious nuisance.  It is discovered 
that they have gained control of a trojan gate and now have it in their system
It is feared that once they have deciphered the entrance codes and mastered
the control system that they will merge with it.  
How to destroy them: You must fight your way past their armada
to the trojan gate.  at this point you must lob the shunt drive into it, and 
after this is done... move forward into it as fast as possible.  Your terminus
point will be the center of the star.  You'll get to watch the star dissolve 
around you as it gets shunted elsewhen.  If you don't enter fast enough, 
you get shunted along with the whole system.


You defeat a large number of sengzhac's and finally get to approach the
eye.  You activate the device but nothing happens (wait about a minute for
the player to get mad and say "why didn't it work...aarg, they said it
would work")...you go blank in a wave of power and recieve a final vision. 
You are told to place the channeler from the temple in the device.  You
have your engineer do it, and then activate the device again and watch the
endgame.



****reminders******

Make sure to mention in log entry after 4th shunt installation to ask the
guild about the shunt drive...

Trojan points:
        There exist points in space that have a gravitational potential         
which is exactly zero.  Trojan points and center-of-mass points for massive        
bodies are natural terminus points for shunt tunnels.  Instantaneous travel
my be had via these devices.  Unfortunately, the majority of these devices
have either been destroyed or have fallen into disrepair over the last
100 millenia since their creation.

locations: Scavenger home system. (and wherever else we decide)

